# Acknowledgments

I am eternally grateful for the opportunities and experiences during my
time at MIT. I had the freedom to pursue my curiosity and collaborate
with incredible individuals who have shaped me into the person I am
today. I extend my heartfelt thanks to those who guided and supported me
on my research journey.

First and foremost, I want to express my deepest gratitude to my
advisor, Russ Tedrake. After a skydiving accident that left me with a
shattered ankle, my attention shifted from astronautics to robotics.
During a summer of relentless exploration into simulation, control, and
kinematics, I stumbled upon optimization methods through Drake. Russ's
class left a profound impression on me, showcasing his dedication to the
robotics community, and I was fortunate to join his lab. Throughout my
UROP, SuperUROP, and MEng program, Russ's principled approach, attention
to detail, and profound questioning taught me the value of slowing down
and embracing the rewards of deep long-term thinking, not only in
research but in life. I am incredibly grateful for this early
realization and look forward to continuing this journey with Russ in my
graduate studies.

I extend my sincere thanks to all the members of the Robot Locomotion
Group, especially Mark Petersen, who mentored me during my early UROP
years, and Tobia Marcucci, with whom I had the privilege of
collaborating on the initial development of GCS trajectory optimization.
I am also grateful to the other members of the RLG with whom I've had
the pleasure of interacting: Nicholas, Savva, Boyuan, Tommy, Ria,
Abhinav, Adam, Terry, Pang, Alex, Lujie, Bernhard, Rebecca, Max, Lirui,
and Shao.

I would also like to thank Al Rizzi and Jiuguang Wang at the AI
Institute for their support in enabling me to complete my thesis while
employed there. My work there reinforced the importance of maintaining
relevance between academic research and industrial applications.

Finally, I express my deepest appreciation to my family, especially my
mother, Lusine, for their unwavering emotional support throughout my
time at MIT. Their encouragement has been invaluable, making my journey
both fulfilling and enjoyable.
