# Conclusion

This thesis has presented a novel approach for addressing nonconvex
trajectory optimization problems by building upon the Graphs of Convex
Sets (GCS) framework. Our primary focus has been integrating nonconvex
constraints, such as dynamic limits, task space constraints and local
collision avoidance, while preserving the global optimization advantages
of GCS. To achieve this, we have utilized carefully crafted convex
surrogates for nonconvex constraints, enabling efficient convex
optimization to guide the global search. The solutions obtained from
this convex relaxation are then refined using nonconvex optimization in
a parallelized rounding process, ensuring the final trajectories satisfy
the original nonconvex constraints. This hybrid approach enables the
generation of smooth, dynamically feasible trajectories that can satisfy
a wider range of constraints compared to traditional GCS methods.

Furthermore, we have introduced a hierarchical graph structure to
enhance the expressiveness of GCS Trajectory Optimization, allowing for
the representation of complex robotic tasks. This structure accommodates
sequential goals, and decision-making between alternative paths for task
and motion planning. Through this hierarchical representation, we can
plan continuous trajectories while simultaneously reasoning about
discrete decisions.

We have evaluated our method on diverse robotic systems, including
quadrotors, manipulators, and legged mobile manipulators, demonstrating
its effectiveness in planning challenging motions. The results highlight
the method's ability to generate minimum-snap trajectories for
quadrotors, respect task-space constraints for manipulators, and plan
multi-stage manipulation tasks for mobile robots with a floating base.
Furthermore, our approach has shown promise in handling dynamic
environments by adapting to unforeseen obstacles using minimum distance
constraints.

## 5.1    Future Directions

This work contributes to the field of robotic motion planning by
offering a framework for tackling jointly discrete and continuous
complex planning problems. The integration of nonconvex optimization
with GCS aims to expand the scope of addressable tasks, allowing for the
generation of more efficient and realistic robot motions. However,
several promising research avenues remain to be explored:

**Legged Locomotion and Footstep Planning:** For legged robots, planning
directly in foot positions rather than joint positions offers a more
powerful mechanism for enforcing foothold constraints. While task-space
position constraints can be imposed at set intervals, they cannot
guarantee that a foot remains perfectly stationary throughout a
trajectory. By employing analytical inverse kinematics
[@cohn2023constrained] to relate foot positions to the base
configuration, we gain the ability to impose constraints that ensure
specific feet remain stationary while allowing the base to move, tilt,
and roll.

This concept naturally extends to integrate footstep planning into the
framework. By associating footholds with specific regions in the
environment, we can leverage GCS to optimize both footstep placement and
continuous base motions. Employing the quasi-static contact model in GCS
introduced by @graesdal2024towards, the planner could reason about
contact forces and potentially be extended via centroidal dynamics
[@orin2013centroidal] to ensure a dynamically feasible gait, even in
challenging environments.

**Automatic Convex Decomposition:** Existing decomposition algorithms
like IRIS-NP [@petersen2023growing] require manual seeding of regions,
demanding substantial time and expertise. Automating this process is
crucial for wider adoption of GCS-based planning. The clique cover
method [@werner2023approximating] offers a promising direction,
automatically identifying clusters of mutually visible configurations
for polytope generation. However, in high-dimensional configuration
spaces, uniform sampling may miss critical regions, such as those where
the robot interacts with objects or navigates through tight spaces.
Developing effective sampling strategies, potentially leveraging machine
learning or task-specific heuristics, could prioritize these regions,
using inverse kinematics to sample relevant configurations. This would
accelerate decomposition and broaden the applicability of GCS-based
planning.

**Integration with Perception:** Integrating our method with robust
perception pipelines for obstacle detection can bridge the gap between
planning and execution. In particular, handling dynamic environments
necessitates perceiving newly introduced obstacles. We can leverage
lidar sensors and point clouds, employing primitive fitting or learned
signed distance fields [@park2019deepsdf] to represent newly introduced
obstacles for collision avoidance. Incorporating real-time perception
data enables the planner to adapt to changing environments, ensuring
robust and collision-free execution of planned trajectories.

The combination of GCS and nonlinear optimization, as investigated in
this thesis, represents a step toward more powerful robot motion
planning. Continuing to explore the future directions outlined above
holds the potential to enhance the capabilities of robots, allowing them
to operate more effectively in complex and dynamic environments.