# Background

This chapter establishes the context and foundational knowledge
necessary for understanding the contributions of this thesis. We begin
by reviewing trajectory optimization and its significance in robot
motion planning. We then delve into the challenges of nonconvexity in
this domain, highlighting the limitations of conventional techniques.
Finally, we introduce the Graphs of Convex Sets (GCS) framework as a
powerful tool for addressing these challenges, paving the way for the
novel methods presented in this thesis.

## 2.1    Trajectory Optimization for Motion Planning

Trajectory optimization is a fundamental approach in robot motion
planning, aiming to generate dynamically feasible, time-parameterized
motions that satisfy given constraints while optimizing for desired
objectives
[@diehl2006fast; @augugliaro2012generation; @schulman2014motion; @majumdar2017funnel; @zhang2020optimization].
It seeks to find an open-loop control solution, represented as a
time-varying trajectory, that is optimal for a specific initial
condition.

Trajectory optimization problems are typically formulated as
mathematical optimization programs, where the decision variables
represent the robot's state and control inputs over time. The objective
function often encodes metrics such as time, energy consumption, or path
length, while constraints ensure the trajectory adheres to physical
limitations like joint limits, velocity bounds, and collision avoidance.

Solving these optimization problems generally involves discretizing the
continuous-time trajectory using techniques like piecewise polynomials
or basis functions. The resulting optimization program can then be
solved using various techniques, including nonlinear programming
methods.

However, the presence of nonconvex constraints, such as those arising
from collision avoidance or nonlinear system dynamics, can make it
challenging to find globally optimal solutions. Traditional trajectory
optimization methods, which rely on local optimization algorithms, are
susceptible to getting trapped in local minima, leading to suboptimal or
even infeasible trajectories. This underscores the need for techniques
that can effectively navigate the nonconvexities inherent in many robot
motion planning problems.

## 2.2    The Challenges of Nonconvexity

Obstacles in the environment, and kinematic or dynamic constraints often
introduce nonconvexities into a robot's configuration space or, more
generally, into the space of feasible trajectories. This nonconvexity
poses a significant challenge for traditional trajectory optimization
methods.

Local optimization algorithms, commonly used to solve trajectory
optimization problems, are fundamentally limited in their ability to
handle nonconvexity. They tend to converge to local minima, which may be
far from the globally optimal solution. In the context of motion
planning, this can lead to trajectories that are unnecessarily long,
inefficient, or even fail to find any feasible trajectory.

Sampling-based methods
[@karaman2011sampling; @gammell2014informed; @janson2015fast], such as
Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (RRT), offer an alternative approach for
handling nonconvexity. These methods construct graphs by randomly
sampling the robot's configuration space. RRT incrementally builds a
tree by iteratively extending it towards randomly sampled
configurations, while Probabilistic RoadMaps (PRM) generate a graph by
connecting nearby feasible configurations.

While probabilistically complete, meaning they will eventually find a
feasible path if one exists, these methods often struggle to find
optimal paths. Moreover, generating smooth, dynamically feasible
trajectories that satisfy additional constraints, especially those
involving higher-order derivatives, remains a challenge for these
methods.

The limitations of traditional trajectory optimization methods in
handling nonconvexity highlight the need for alternative approaches.
These approaches should be capable of effectively navigating the
nonconvex search space, exploring multiple path homotopies, and
ultimately finding high-quality solutions that satisfy the desired
constraints and objectives.

## 2.3    Graphs of Convex Sets (GCS)

The Graphs of Convex Sets (GCS) framework [@marcucci2024shortest] offers
a powerful approach for addressing mixed discrete and continuous
optimization problems, particularly in the context of motion planning
[@marcucci2023motion]. It provides a structured representation of the
robot's configuration space as a graph, where:

-   **Vertices:** Each vertex corresponds to a convex, collision-free
    region in the configuration space. For trajectory optimization, a
    vertex contains multiple control points defining a Bézier curve
    segment within that region, along with a duration scaling variable
    that determines the time spent traversing the segment.

-   **Edges:** Edges connect vertices whose corresponding regions
    intersect, indicating a feasible transition. Continuity constraints
    on the Bézier curves and their derivatives enforce smooth
    transitions between regions.

The key strength of GCS lies in its ability to formulate the motion
planning problem as a single, unified optimization program that
simultaneously addresses both the discrete and continuous aspects of the
problem.

The discrete aspect involves selecting a path through the graph, which
corresponds to choosing a sequence of convex regions to traverse. The
continuous aspect involves optimizing the shape and timing of the
trajectory within each region, determined by the control points of the
Bézier curves and the duration scaling variables.

This optimization can be naturally formulated as a mixed-integer convex
program. However, previous mixed-integer formulations for similar
problems have proven extremely inefficient. The GCS framework, in
contrast, provides a remarkably efficient representation.
@marcucci2023motion further introduced a tight convex relaxation and a
cheap rounding strategy to solve the problem even more efficiently as a
convex program. By relaxing the binary variables that indicate edge
selection into continuous flows, and by employing perspective operators
to scale the costs and constraints accordingly, the resulting convex
relaxation yields a solution where these flows can be interpreted as
edge probabilities. A randomized rounding strategy, guided by these edge
probabilities, is then used to identify a small set of promising
discrete paths. These paths are then optimized independently, leveraging
the continuous optimization capabilities of GCS to recover a final
collision-free trajectory.

This approach enables the efficient exploration of multiple path
homotopies, avoiding local minima that often plague traditional
trajectory optimization methods. The GCS framework effectively blends
the combinatorial power of graph search with the expressiveness of
continuous trajectory optimization, offering a promising direction for
addressing complex motion planning problems in robotics.
