# Introduction

Trajectory optimization offers a powerful approach for planning robot
motions
[@diehl2006fast; @augugliaro2012generation; @schulman2014motion; @majumdar2017funnel; @zhang2020optimization],
capable of generating dynamically feasible trajectories that respect
kinematic and dynamic constraints
Â [@goretkin2013optimal; @webb2012kinodynamic; @wu2020r3t]. However, the
inherent nonconvexity of collision-free space often leads to suboptimal
solutions or even failures to find feasible paths
[@lavalle2006planning]. While existing sampling-based planners like RRTs
and PRMs [@karaman2011sampling; @gammell2014informed; @janson2015fast]
can handle nonconvexity, they present several practical challenges.

In my industry experience, I have observed that finding collision-free
trajectories using sampling-based planners, like RRTs and PRMs, can be
unreliable, particularly in complex or high-dimensional configuration
spaces. This unreliability stems from the very nature of sampling-based
methods, which may struggle to adequately explore the vast space of
possible robot configurations. Even when a collision-free path is found,
it often exhibits jaggedness, requiring computationally expensive
smoothing techniques that still tend to yield suboptimal motions. This
lack of smoothness can lead to jerky robot behavior, potentially causing
the low-level trajectory tracking controller to deviate from the desired
trajectory, resulting in unwanted collisions or undesirable interactions
with the environment or manipulated objects. Furthermore, the absence of
an inherent notion of time in these planners often leads to simplistic,
constant-speed trajectory parametrizations.

Such rudimentary time parametrizations either underutilize the robot's
dynamic capabilities or risk violating its limits. Even with powerful
time optimal reparametrization [@Verscheure09], the disconnect between
path planning and timing further exacerbates the problem of finding
truly optimal trajectories. A common misconception in robotic motion
planning is that minimizing path length and then performing time
parametrization will yield a minimum-time trajectory. However, this
approach overlooks the crucial interplay between path geometry and
dynamic constraints. A trajectory optimized for minimum path length
might involve sharp turns or rapid changes in direction that are
infeasible to execute at high speeds, leading to suboptimal results.
Consequently, a minimum-time trajectory might necessitate a completely
different discrete path, potentially navigating through wider curves or
taking alternative routes to leverage the robot's full dynamic
capabilities while respecting its limitations.

The challenges of sampling-based methods become even more pronounced
when considering long-horizon trajectories, especially for mobile bases
operating in expansive environments. The computational burden of
sampling such vast spaces often necessitates the use of heuristics,
which can compromise solution quality. Furthermore, the performance of
these planners is highly sensitive to parameter tuning, requiring
significant effort to obtain satisfactory results for different tasks
and environments. Their lack of optimality guarantees further
complicates their reliable deployment in practical settings.

This thesis introduces a novel approach that leverages the strengths of
the Graph of Convex Sets (GCS) framework [@marcucci2023motion] to guide
nonlinear trajectory optimization. GCS provides a powerful tool for
global optimization over an approximate convex decomposition
[@petersen2023growing] of the configuration space. We extend this
framework to incorporate a broader range of cost functions and
constraints, including those involving nonconvexities, through a hybrid
approach that combines convex surrogates for global guidance with
efficient rounding via nonlinear optimization.

Furthermore, we propose a hierarchical structure for the GCS, organizing
it into connected subgraphs. This enables the formulation of problems
with intermediate goals or logical decision-making using series or
parallel connections between subgraphs. This hierarchical approach
enables us to plan continuous trajectories while simultaneously making
discrete decisions, gaining fine-grained control over the constraints
and costs imposed at different stages of a task.

We evaluate the effectiveness of this approach across a range of
challenging robotic motion planning scenarios. These evaluations
demonstrate the capability to generate smooth, dynamically feasible
trajectories while simultaneously optimizing for multiple objectives and
satisfying diverse constraints. First, we consider the problem of
planning minimum-snap trajectories for quadrotors navigating cluttered
environments. Our method successfully incorporates acceleration
constraints and continuity requirements, generating trajectories that
are both efficient and motion-wise smooth. Next, we investigate the
challenges of planning for manipulators like the KUKA iiwa,
demonstrating that generated trajectories respect joint limits and
task-space constraints even in dynamic settings. Finally, we showcase
the method's applicability to more complex robotic systems like Spot, a
legged mobile manipulator, planning complex tasks involving sequential
goals and adaptation to unforeseen obstacles, and even scaling to a
50-dimensional configuration space for planning coordinated motions of
two Spots.

The results of these evaluations highlight the robustness and
versatility of our approach, showcasing its potential to advance the
state of the art in robotic motion planning. The following chapters
delve into the theoretical foundations, implementation details, and
experimental validations of our proposed method.


[^ref]